network switch

PF SENSE:-
pf sense is a firewall to protect n/w.
To control traffic ,like to allow or to block traffic
Open source firwall
Provides network security solution
Works as a router
Reliabe

Types of PF sense:-
1. Hardware
2. Software   (open source so free to download) 


Two interfaces of PF sense:-
1. LAN   (Trusted)
2. WAN   (Untrusted)


To make a network switch we need atleast 3 network cards.
One LAN card
Two WAN card  (2 ISP in this case)

Features of PF SENSE:-
1.Firewall
  Secures the network

2.State Table
  When a traffic originates from LAN to WAN ,then firewall maintains a table which keeps the track of all data that 
  from which source ip the tarffic tranfers from broadcasted (trusted or LAN) zone to untrusted (WAN) zone.It maintain 
  the record of all that data.
  If in case it found that the connection is originated internally from LAN,then it allows the traffic but if it founds
  that the connection is generated from outside i.e. WAN or from an untrusted zone then it will discard the connection   

  It maintains a firewall table ,it allows only those traffic to from WAN to LAN, which originates from LAN to WAN first.

3. NAT, PAT(Network Address Tranlation Port address Translation)

4. High Avaliability
   In this there works two pf sense firewall.
   First pf sense firewall copys the state table to the secondary firewall so that if in case the primary firewall stops working 
   then the secondary firewall will gets auto restarts itself.

5. WAN Failover or Load balancing
   Here we need 3 network interface card 1 LAN & two WAN
   We were taking WAN connection from two different ISP
   If one WAN connection fails then the pfsense switches the traffic to another WAN connection

6. VPN
   If a user wants to enter from a remote location to the office network ,then whats the procedure for that.

7. PPPOE Server(Point to Point protocol over ethernet)

8. Monitoring Traffic (ntop)
   How to monitor the traffic of LAN network users.
   Which user is consuming how much traffic & total consumption of the bandwidth of a network.
   
9. Backup /Restore FW configuration       














